How can we make this even smaller?
Well, the first thing I might think is
what things do I only need for
just the build?
And I kind of hinted there, and I don't
need when I go to production, npm, right?
I actually don't need the package
manager when I'm in production.
I just need it when I'm building it,
right?
Again, npm is so small,
it's tens of megabytes, if that.
Don't really need to do this, I just
wanted to demonstrate a point to you.
Sometimes if you're building things
like Rust or LLVM or things like that,
these things are quite large tool chains.
And you don't wanna send
those out to production,
cuz there are security
vulnerabilities again.
So I'm gonna show you the concept of how
to do this, but please don't do this for
npm, it's just not in
general not a good a idea.
Well, I guess there are scenarios, and
we'll actually get into that later,
when eliminating npm could be a good idea.
But for a node application like this,
it's not a big deal.
So let's go even further, all right.
So Docker allows you to do what's called
multistage builds, which is like let's
build something first, copy the output
into a new container and go from there.
So I can actually basically build
multiple containers multiple times.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So from the first one, because this
first container is going to be just for
building stuff, I'm just gonna say,
cool, give me node : 12-stretch, right?
And we'll move this all stuff down
here because it doesn't matter.
Hey, so you might as well give
me the kitchen sink, right?
Because I'm gonna build a bunch of stuff
then I'm gonna throw this container away.
So I'm gonna make a directory
called WORKDIR /build.
Everything can be done as route because it
doesn't matter because the end user will
not be route.
So I'm gonna say WORKDIR /build.
Okay, and then I'm gonna say copy.
Actually, this stuff right here,
you can totally do this down here.
Here on the chown because it can be
owned by root, that's not a big deal.
Okay, RUN npm ci and then we're gonna say,
copy.., all right?
And so this everything above here or
below here, this is the build stage.
>> And copy ..,
is copy whatever is in this directory
into the same container directory.
>> Exactly, yep,
yeah it just copies everything.
Okay, and then down here,
we're gonna have a runtime stage.
So what you're gonna do is
gonna say FROM again, but
we're gonna start with
a different container.
So FROM alpine: 3.10, okay?
Here we're going to run APK add nodejs.
But we're not going to do it with npm cuz
we don't need that in the build stage,
we're goona do our RUN addgroup,
we're going to do our usernode,
we're gonna do mikdir, who can do WORKDIR.
And then here,
we don't need to do this again,
because it's already happened above.
In fact,
we don't need either one of these copies.
But what we're gonna do now is we're gonna
say copy,and we're gonna say --from,
that's what this from is right here,
right?
And we're gonna say from stage 0.
Now you can also get these names, I don't
remember the syntax off the top my head,
but you could call this as build or
something like that.
>> As build.
>> Good has everyone remember the last
time I had my head, that was a real risk.
So in that case you would see copy
from build, right., You see for
words numbers also were because
numbers that can be a bit brittle
of multiple stages cuz you can
have like five stages, right.
So from build, we're gonna say --chown
=node:node.
And then we're gonna say FROM /build,
everything that you put in /build,
put it in here which still can
be this working directory.
And then down here the CMD stays the same.
Everything's all good.
By the way, these like instructions,
you know how I'm always putting them
in upper case, they actually don't have
to be in upper case, just so you know.
But literally everyone makes
them all upper case so
that the file is a lot easier to read.
So you don't have to, but always do it.
I actually think that VS code
will change this for me.
No it won't but it's gonna say hey
this is real dumb, don't do that.
Instructions should be written in
upper case letters, you idiot.
Okay, it would still work though.
All right, so let's see if this works.
It's anyone's guess.
What's actually even cooler,
which I'm now gonna show you,
you can actually build a bunch
of containers in a row.
So you can say like, here's my dev
container, here's my build container.
You can build them all in on dockerfile
and it'll export all of them for
you, which is kind of cool too.
So now I have this my-node-app latest.
Let us go ahead and give it a run
to see that I am not full of crap.
Might be, no one ever knows.
Still working right,
still seeing our success.
Let's go ahead and stop this.
I must say docker inspect
my-node-app | jq.
And let's take a look.
We are down to 39 megabytes.
So we got even smaller, so
we saved ourselves 20 megabytes with
npm being gone, something like that.
I mean, in theory, I guess you
could even drop package JSON and
package lock JSON and
save some extra kilobytes.
Good for you, don't do that.
But kind of get the point where you
kind of get through that like, okay,
what don't I need in production, right?
That's the idea that I
wanna get through you.
Sometimes you have multiple
docker files in one directory.
In general, that's not true but
it can happen, right?
So let's say I had another one here
that was maybe like my dev environment.
I would call it like dev.dockerfile.
There's also a lot of debate,
should it be dockerfile.dev or
should it be dev.dockerfile?
I'm going to show you this way because
that way syntax highlighting works and
everything in my life is based
around syntax highlighting.
I can't develop without it.
So we're just sticking with that.
So let's just say this, I don't know
something really dumb FROM Node
: latest or something like that.
The question then becomes
how do I build this without,
cuz this just immediately finds whatever
the name of the docker file is.
So you can also put in-F.
And then here you put in dev.dockerfile,
and that's how you pointed out a different
docker file, or it can be like outside
of the directory or something like that.